DRAFT: Statsig Alternatives (#8372)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/best-statsig-alternatives.md

featuredImageType: full
category: General
tags:
  - Comparisons
---

import { ComparisonTable } from 'components/ComparisonTable'
import { ComparisonRow } from 'components/ComparisonTable/row'

## 1. PostHog

- **Founded:** 2020
- **Similar to:** Statsig, Amplitude
- **Typical users:** Engineers and product teams

![PostHog](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1710055416/posthog.com/contents/images/screenshots/feature-flags.png)

### What is PostHog?

PostHog is an open-source, all-in-one platform for feature management, A/B testing, product analytics, session replay, and user surveys. It's also building a [data warehouse for startups](/docs/data-warehouse) and a customer data platform (CDP), though both are currently in closed beta.

By combining all these tools into one platform, it eliminates the need for stitching together integrations between third-party tools, and makes it easier for engineers to work with data. PostHog is popular with engineering-led companies, like AI startup [ElevanLabs](/customers/elevenlabs) and [carVertical](/feature-flags), which use PostHog for both feature flags and analytics.

> According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/PostHog), PostHog is used by 4,661 (0.47%) of the top 1 million websites, compared to Statsig's 706 (0.07%). This difference is [confirmed by Google Trends](https://trends.google.com/trends/explore?date=today%205-y&q=posthog,statsig), which indicates PostHog is considerably more popular.

Author: ```suggestion
According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/PostHog), PostHog is used by 4,661 (0.47%) of the top 1 million websites, compared to Statsig's 706 (0.07%). This difference is [confirmed by Google Trends](https://trends.google.com/trends/explore?date=today%205-y&q=posthog,statsig) data.
```

> #### Bottom line
> 
> PostHog is an ideal Statsig alternative if you're looking for a more powerful analytics tool that can also serve your A/B testing and feature management needs. It also offers a dedicated EU-hosted cloud at no extra cost.

<br />

## 2. LaunchDarkly

- **Founded:** 2014
- **Similar to:** Harness, Kameleoon
- **Typical users:** Enterprise engineering and DevOps teams

![LaunchDarkly](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1712355416/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/best-optimizely-alternatives/launchdarkly.png)

### What is LaunchDarkly?

[LaunchDarkly](/blog/posthog-vs-launchdarkly) is an enterprise feature flag and A/B testing platform. It helps developers de-risk releases, target experiences, and optimize their products. It provides automation and governance features to ensure teams are following [engineering best practices](/product-engineers/feature-flag-best-practices).

> According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/LaunchDarkly), as of April 2024, 1,072 of the top one million websites use LaunchDarkly, significantly more than the 706 that use Statsig.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/LaunchDarkly), as of April 2024, 1,072 of the top one million websites use LaunchDarkly, more than the 706 that use Statsig.
```

1. **SDKs:** Reviewers appreciate how easy it is to integrate LaunchDarkly into their apps thanks to the range of SDKs they provide, like JavaScript, Python, Android, and iOS.

2. **Automations:** LaunchDarkly provides automations like scheduled rollouts, rollout templates, DevOps pipeline integrations, and stale flag cleanup.

3. **Speed and availability:** High uptime and speed are critical for developers. Reviewers highlight local caching and edge computing integrations as critical ways LaunchDarkly supports these.

> #### Bottom line
>
> LaunchDarkly is a good alternative if you desire more powerful feature management options compared to Statsig, though it doesn't offer some of Statsig's nice perks, such as unlimited seats and multi-armed bandit experiments. It also has no analytics features, so you'll need a separate tool for that.

<br />

## 3. Amplitude

- **Founded:** 2012
- **Most similar to:** PostHog, Statsig
- **Typical users:** Product managers, data analysts, marketing teams

![amplitude](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1710055416/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/mixpanel-alternatives/amplitude-website.png)

### What is Amplitude?

> Amplitude was one of the original product analytics tools. Many large enterprise customers, like Ford, NBCUniversal, and Walmart rely on it. In recent years, it’s also added A/B testing, feature flags, session replays, and a customer data platform, making it an obvious alternative to Statsig.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Amplitude](/blog/best-amplitude-alternatives) was one of the original product analytics tools. Many large enterprise customers, like Ford, NBCUniversal, and Walmart rely on it. In recent years, it’s also added A/B testing, feature flags, session replays, and a customer data platform, making it an obvious alternative to Statsig.
```

Unsurprisingly, given it was founded in 2012, it's much more widely used. According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/Amplitude), as of April 2024, 9,760 of the top million sites use Amplitude, compared to Statsig's 706.

> #### Key features
> - 📈 **Product analytics:** Funnel and retention analysis, user paths, behavioral cohorts, custom dashboards, and more.
> - 🧪 **A/B testing:** Test new features on specific targets and analyze with primary, secondary, and counter metrics.
> - 👦 **Customer data platform:** Combine analytics data with third-party tools for data governance, identity resolution, and data federation.
> - 🤖 **AI insight builder:** Generate insights based on natural language requests, like "What is my purchase conversion rate?"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Key features

- 📈 **Product analytics:** Funnel and retention analysis, user paths, behavioral cohorts, custom dashboards, and more.

- 🧪 **A/B testing:** Test new features on specific targets and analyze with primary, secondary, and counter metrics.

- 👦 **Customer data platform:** Combine analytics data with third-party tools for data governance, identity resolution, and data federation.

- 🤖 **AI insight builder:** Generate insights based on natural language requests, like "What is my purchase conversion rate?"
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Mutually exclusive experiments" description="Isolate user groups for simultaneous, independent experiments." />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="No code experiments " description="Create A/B tests using a visual editor" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Product analytics" description="Track trends, funnels, user paths, and retention" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Autocapture" description="Capture events without manual logging" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Query editor" description="Query your analytics data using SQL" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="EU hosting option" description="Choose where your data is stored" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Why do companies use Amplitude?
According to G2 reviews, people like Amplitude because:

1. **It's simple to use:** Amplitude makes it easy for non-technical users to get insights about their product and make improvements. Amplitude is built for users like product managers and marketers, making it a popular choice for them.

> 2. **It offers built-in A/B testing:** Unlike FullStory, Amplitude offers integrated experimentation features. This enables companies to run experiments on existing cohorts, and then analyze the data in a single place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **It offers built-in A/B testing:** Amplitude offers integrated experimentation features. This enables companies to run experiments on existing cohorts, and then analyze the data in a single place.
```

3. **It helps them become data-driven:** Amplitude users appreciate it helps them become data-driven. It becomes easy to add data, visualize it, and make decisions, and they can use it as a source of truth thanks to its built-in customer data platform.

> #### Bottom line
>

> > Like PostHog, Amplitude is a good option if you value powerful

Reviewer: unfinished sentence :)

Author: doh

> > Like PostHog, Amplitude is a good option if you value powerful

Author: ```suggestion
> Like PostHog, Amplitude is a good alternative if you value powerful analytics and experimentation in one, though it's less geared to engineers than Statsig or PostHog.
```

<br />

## 4. Optimizely

- **Founded:** 2010
- **Similar to:** VWO
- **Typical users:** Enterprise marketing, frontend teams

![Optimizely](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1710055416/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/best-launchdarkly-alternatives/optimizely.png)

### What is Optimizely?

[Optimizely](/blog/posthog-vs-optimizely) is an all-in-one set of tools for marketing and product teams. It offers a combination of content management, marketing, web and feature experiments, and ecommerce optimization tools, all geared toward optimizing web experiences.

> As one of the oldest alternatives in this guide, it's also one of the most widely used. According to data from [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/Optimizely), as of April 2024 Optimizely is deployed on 5,071 of the top 1 million websites, compared to Statsig's 706. Its popularity has declined somewhat in recent years, however, due in large to greater competition – usage peaked at around 12,500 of the top 1 million websites back in 2016.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As one of the oldest alternatives in this guide, it's also one of the most widely used. According to data from [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/Optimizely), as of April 2024, Optimizely is deployed on 5,071 of the top 1 million websites, compared to Statsig's 706. Its popularity has declined somewhat in recent years, however, due in large to greater competition – usage peaked at around 12,500 of the top million websites back in 2016.
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Multi-armed bandit" description="Optimize tests automatically by allocating traffic to the best performing variant." /> 
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Mutually exclusive experiments" description="Isolate user groups for simultaneous, independent experiments." />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="No code experiments " description="Create A/B tests using a visual editor" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Product analytics" description="Track trends, funnels, user paths, and retention" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Autocapture" description="Capture events without manual logging" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Query editor" description="Query your analytics data using SQL" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="EU hosting option" description="Choose where your data is stored" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Why do companies use Optimizely?

According to G2 reviews, people are fans of Optimizely because:

> 1. **It's easy to use for non-engineers**:** Optimizely makes it easy for anyone to run web experiments thanks to no code visual editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **It's easy to use for non-engineers**: Optimizely makes it easy for anyone to run web experiments thanks to no code visual editor.
```

2. **It integrates with their analytics platforms:** Optimizely doesn't have built-in analytics, but reviewers appreciate its integrations with Google Analytics, Adobe Analytics, and others.

3. **It's business-oriented:** Optimizely focuses on optimizing business, marketing, and ecommerce use cases, and helps users improve the core business metrics they care about most.

> #### Bottom line
>
> Optimizely's no code experiments make it a good choice if you need a tool that's accessible for non-technical teams, such as marketing, something neither Statsig, nor the likes of PostHog, LaunchDarkly or Amplitude, currently offer.

<br />

## 5. VWO

- **Founded:** 2009
- **Similar to:** Optimizely, PostHog
- **Typical users:** Product managers, engineers, UX designers

![VWO](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1710055416/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/best-launchdarkly-alternatives/vwo.png)

### What is VWO?

> VWO is a digital optimization platform that aims to maximize conversion with tools like A/B testing, personalization, funnels, heatmaps, session replay, and customer analytics. The platform is home to multiple different products including testing, insights, data, personalize, plan, and web rollouts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

[VWO](/blog/best-vwo-alternatives) is a digital optimization platform that aims to maximize conversion with tools like A/B testing, personalization, funnels, heatmaps, session replay, and customer analytics. The platform is home to multiple different products including testing, insights, data, personalize, plan, and web rollouts.
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Payloads" description="Flags with string, number, or JSON payloads" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="A/B testing" description="Run tests and see the impact of changes with custom goals and reports" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Multivariate (A/B/n) testing" description="Test multiple variants of a change" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Secondary metrics" description="Monitor impact on unrelated metrics" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Multi-armed bandit" description="Optimize tests automatically by allocating traffic to the best performing variant." /> 
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Mutually exclusive experiments" description="Isolate user groups for simultaneous, independent experiments." />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="No code experiments " description="Create A/B tests using a visual editor" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Product analytics" description="Track trends, funnels, user paths, and retention" />

>   <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Autocapture" description="Capture events without manual logging" />

Reviewer: I counted VWO as having autocapture in https://posthog.com/blog/best-vwo-alternatives but it is a bit [ambiguous](https://vwo.com/insights/#features)

Author: What actually implies they do have it? I couldn't see anything. Tried their docs as well, but they're basically impossible to navigate!

Author: I think this implies no, because if they did have it then you would already by collecting events, rather than "ready to collect events".

![Screenshot 2024-04-30 at 16 50 03](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/assets/92976667/cb77f5d0-c415-4b76-a3e4-84f209d339c6)

</ComparisonTable>

### Why do companies use VWO?

Based on G2 reviews, the biggest reasons to choose VWO are:

1. **Support:** VWO's support staff are knowledgeable, helpful, and responsive. This helps people get the most out of the platform from onboarding onwards.

2. **Multi-use:** Reviewers like that they can combine A/B tests with surveys, funnels, session replays, and analysis tools to optimize the complete user experience.

3. **Data-focused:** VWO enables both technical and non-technical to make better data-driven decisions by being the complete source of experience data.

> #### Bottom line
>
> Like Optimizely, VWO is a good alternative to Statsig if you're looking for a tool anyone in your company can use. It offers a no code editor for marketing experiments, while also offering tools like heatmaps and replays that are useful for non-engineers.

<br />

## 6. GrowthBook

- **Founded:** 2020
- **Similar to:** LaunchDarkly, Statsig
- **Typical users:** Engineers and data scientists

![GrowthBook](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1713309283/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/best-split-alternatives/growthbook.png)

### What is GrowthBook?

> [GrowthBook](/blog/posthog-vs-growthbook) is a warehouse-native feature flag and experimentation platform. Its biggest selling point is integrating with the product and data tools you already use. Being open source and warehouse-native makes it a popular choice with companies in strict regulatory environments GrowthBook is open source with 5.5k stars on GitHub. It is self-hostable, but you can also use its hosted cloud version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[GrowthBook](/blog/posthog-vs-growthbook) is a warehouse-native feature flag and experimentation platform. Its biggest selling point is integrating with the product and data tools you already use.

It's a popular choice for companies in strict regulatory environments because it is warehouse-native and self-hostable, but you can also use its hosted cloud version.  It is also open source with 5.5k stars on GitHub.
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Multi-armed bandit" description="Optimize tests automatically by allocating traffic to the best performing variant." /> 
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Mutually exclusive experiments" description="Isolate user groups for simultaneous, independent experiments." />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="No code experiments " description="Create A/B tests using a visual editor" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Product analytics" description="Track trends, funnels, user paths, and retention" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Autocapture" description="Capture events without manual logging" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Query editor" description="Query your analytics data using SQL" />
  <ComparisonRow column1="Via self-hosting" column2={false} feature="EU hosting option" description="Choose where your data is stored" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Why do companies use GrowthBook?

According to G2, reviewers choose GrowthBook for the following.

> 1. **Warehouse native:** GrowthBook's integrations with the warehouses people are already using is a standout feature. It enables them to extract and make use of the data they already have.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Warehouse-native:** GrowthBook's integrations with the warehouses people are already using is a standout feature. It enables them to extract and make use of the data they already have.
```

2. **Visual editor:** The visual A/B test editor and experiment preview enable non-technical users to make full use of GrowthBook.

3. **Self-hostable:** Reviewers like that they have full control over GrowthBook by running it on their own infrastructure. This means no limits to data.

> #### Bottom line
> Being open source, free, and self-hostable, GrowthBook makes for a good alternative to Statsig, especially for companies in tricky regulatory situations.

<br />

## 7. Kameleoon

- **Founded:** 2012
- **Similar to:** LaunchDarkly, VWO
- **Typical users:** Product managers and developers

![Kameleoon](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1712355416/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/best-optimizely-alternatives/kameleoon.png)

### What is Kameleoon?

> Kameleoon is a developer-focused complete optimization platform with A/B testing, feature management, and personalization. On top of these, it includes an AI copilot that helps generate options, do predictive targeting, assist in decisions, and more. According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/Kameleoon), as of April 2024, 816 of the top one million websites deploy Kameleoon, similar to Statsig's 706.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kameleoon is a developer-focused complete optimization platform with A/B testing, feature management, and personalization. On top of these, it includes an AI copilot that helps generate options, do predictive targeting, assist in decisions, and more. 

According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/Kameleoon), as of April 2024, 816 of the top one million websites deploy Kameleoon, similar to Statsig's 706.
```

#### Key features

- 🌐 **Web experimentation:** Use their smart graphic editor and widget library to run flicker-free A/B tests on your website.

- 🚀 **Feature experimentation:** Do targeted rollouts of features and analyze their impact.

- 🤖 **AI copilot:** Have AI help with targeting, decision-making, and experiment creation.

- 📊 **Stats accuracy:** Provides advanced stats like sample mismatch ratio, cross-campaign analysis, CUPED, and multiple test correlation.

### How does Kameleoon compare to Statsig?

> Like Statsig, Kameleoon is an A/B testing first and foremost, though it hasn't branched it other arenas, like analytics. Its AI copilot feature is a major differentiator, while it can be self-hosted if this is a requirement for your business.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like Statsig, Kameleoon is an A/B testing platform first and foremost, though it hasn't branched it other arenas, like analytics. Its AI copilot feature is a major differentiator, while it can be self-hosted if this is a requirement for your business.
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Query editor" description="Query your analytics data using SQL" />
  <ComparisonRow column1="Via self-hosting" column2={false} feature="EU hosting option" description="Choose where your data is stored" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Why do companies use Kameleoon?

According to [G2 reviews](https://www.g2.com/products/kameleoon/reviews), users are big fans of the following aspects of Kameleoon:

1. **Statistical tools:** Reviewers are more confident about the results of their experiments thanks to Kameleoon's different statistical engines and AI copilot.

2. **Editors:** The combination of the graphics and widget editors makes it easy to set up A/B tests and personalizations.

3. **Integrations:** Reviewers like how Kameleoon integrates with all the tools they already use, like Google Analytics, Adobe Analytics, and Mixpanel.

> #### Bottom line
> For companies looking for a developer-focused optimization platform, Kameleoon is a good alternative. Though it not being self-serve is a major downside.

<br />

## Is PostHog right for you?

Here's the (short) sales pitch.

> We're biased, obviously, but we think PostHog is the perfect Split replacement if:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're biased, obviously, but we think PostHog is the perfect Statsig replacement if:
```
